IBM Cloud Mongo (#321)
IBM/universal-connectors: filter-plugin/logstash-filter-mongodb-guardium/IBMCloudMongoDB_README.md

         sudo yum install -y mongodb-org-shell
3. On user deployment's Overview page, below there is an Endpoints panel with all the relevant connection information.
4. Copy the CLI Endpoint URL.
5. Connect to AWS EC2 instance which previously created and paste the URL by replacing username (default: admin) and password credentials. Database will be connected.

## 2. Viewing the Audit logs
### Create instance of IBM Log Analysis on IBM Cloud.
1. On the home page, search and select IBM Log Analysis option to create instance.
2. Choose Location e.g., Dallas
3. Select a pricing plan- 7 days Log Search
4. Enter Service Name e.g., IBM Log Analysis Test-1
5. Choose Resource Group.
6. Click the T&C checkbox.
7. Click create. 

### Configure Platform Logs
1. Navigate to the Resource List, click on Logging and monitoring.
2. Select the IBM log analysis instance created in above step.
3. Click on configure platform logs. 
4. Select region and respective instance name.
5. Click on Select.  

### Viewing the logs entries on IBM Log Analysis Instance
1. Navigate to the created instance and Click Open Dashboard for viewing the logs.

### Supported Event Types

> * authenticate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `authenticate`
```

* createCollection

> * createDatabase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `createDatabase`
```

> * createIndex

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `createIndex`
```

> * renameCollection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `renameCollection`
```

> * dropCollection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `dropCollection`
```

* dropDatabase
* dropIndex

> * createUser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `createUser`
```

* dropUser
* dropAllUsersFromDatabase

> * updateUser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `updateUser`
```

> * grantRolesToUser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `grantRolesToUser`
```

* revokeRolesFromUser
* createRole

> * updateRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `updateRole`
```

> * dropRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `dropRole`
```

* dropAllRolesFromDatabase

> * grantRolesToRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `grantRolesToRole`
```

> * revokeRolesFromRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `revokeRolesFromRole`
```

> * grantPrivilegesToRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `grantPrivilegesToRole`
```

* revokePrivilegesFromRole	

## 3. Create instance of Event Streams on IBM Cloud
### Procedure:
1. On the home page, search and select Event Streams option to create instance.
2. Choose Platform name- IBM Cloud.
3. Choose Location e.g., Dallas
4. Select a pricing plan- Standard
5. Enter Service Name e.g., IBM Log Analysis Test-1.
6. Choose Resource Group.
7. Click create.

### Create Topic
1. Navigate to the created instance and Select Topics  Tab and click on Create Topic.
2. Enter Topic Name.
3. Keep the defaults set in the rest of the topic creation, click Next, and then Create topic.

### Create Service Credentials
1. Navigate to the created instance and Go to Service credentials in the navigation pane.
2. Click New credential.
3. Give the credential a name so user can identify its purpose later. User can accept the default value.

> 4. Give the credential the Writer Role.

Reviewer: If "writer role" is a clickable UI element: Assign the credential the **Writer Role** option.

> 5. Click Add. The new credential is listed in the table in Service credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Add**. The new credential is listed in the table in Service credentials.
```

> 6. Click the dropdown button before to Service credentials to see the api_key and kafka_brokers_sasl values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the drop-down button before Service credentials to see the `api_key` and `kafka_brokers_sasl` values.
```

###  Configuring the connection in Log Analysis to Event Streams

> 1. Navigate to the created IBM Log Analysis instance and Click open Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the created IBM log analysis instance and click **Open Dashboard**.
```

2. Click the Settings icon

> 3. select Streaming > Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. select **Streaming** > **Configuration**.
```

> 4. Select kafka as the streaming type. Then, enter the following information:

Reviewer: If "Kafka" is a clickable UI element: Select **Kafka** as the streaming type.

> 5. In the Username field, enter the value token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the **Username** field, enter the value token.
```

> 6. In the Password field, enter the API key that is associated with the service credential that you want to use to authenticate Log Analysis with Event Streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the **Password** field, enter the API key that is associated with the service credential that you want to use to authenticate log analysis with event streams.
```

7. In the Bootstrap Server URL section, enter the kafka_brokers_sasl values that are listed in the service credential.
Note- You must enter each URL as individual entries. If you need to add additional URLs, click Add another URL to add each additional URL.

> 8. Enter the name of a topic and click Save. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Enter the name of a topic and click **Save**. 
```

Reviewer: Name the topic and click **Save**?

Enter the topic name you defined earlier and click **Save**?

> 9. After Click on Save, user has to verify by clicking "yes" button And then user has to click on start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. After you click **Save**, you have to verify by clicking the **yes** button and then **Start**. 
```

> 10. Once User click on Start, Streaming gets active.

Reviewer: (or, if more accurate: Streaming gets an active status after you click **Start**. )

## 4. Limitations

> 1. Analysis is based on IBM Cloud Database for MongoDB 4.4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The analysis is based on IBM Cloud Database for MongoDB 4.4.
```

> 2. Logs for SQL error is not getting generated from datasource.

Reviewer: If more accurate: Logs for SQL errors do not get generated from the data source.

3. Getting 3 logs for createIndex event which have IP value as NONE and port value as 0.
   - ServerIp and ClientIP : fields are populated with 0.0.0.0, as this information is not embedded in the log messages.
   - Client HostName : Set to 0.0.0.0 as IP value is NONE.

> 4. Database for MongoDB supports 22 events only  [https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/databases-for-mongodb?topic=databases-for-mongodb-auditlogging]

Reviewer: IBM Cloud Databases for MongoDB only supports 22 events. See [here](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/databases-for-mongodb?topic=databases-for-mongodb-auditlogging) for more information. ?

> 5. We have used CLI and UI query method for analysis.

Reviewer: In this example, we used both CLI and UI queries to run the analysis.?

> 6. MongoDB Compass (Third Party tool) CLI supports all the 22 events, but UI operation supports only 6 events below,

Reviewer: Using CLI for the third-party tool MongoDB Compass supports all 22 events supported by IBM Cloud Databases for MongoDB. But using the UI for MongoDB Compass supports only the following 6 events:?

   - (createDatabase, dropDatabase, createCollection, dropCollection, createIndex, dropIndex).

> 7. IBM Cloud Platform doesn't retain the source IP addresses of the connection, instead an internal IP addresses (local and remote) are shown in audit logs for each connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. IBM Cloud Platform doesn't retain the source IP addresses of the connection. Instead, an internal IP addresses (local and remote) are shown in audit logs for each connection.
```

> 8. Following important fields couldn't be mapped with MongoDB logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The following important fields cannot be mapped with MongoDB logs:
```

>    - Source program : Not available with logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Source program 
```

>    - Client HostName : Not available with logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Client HostName 
```

## 5. Configuring the IBM Cloud MongoDB filter in Guardium
The Guardium universal connector is the Guardium entry point for native audit logs. The Guardium universal connector identifies and parses the received events, and converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the Guardium universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. Configure Guardium to read the native audit logs by customizing the MongoDB template.

### Before you begin
* You must have Log Full Details policy enabled on the collector. The detailed steps can be found in step 4 on [this page](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/guardium/11.4?topic=dpi-installing-testing-filter-input-plug-in-staging-guardium-system).
* You must have permission for the S-Tap Management role. The admin user includes this role by default.
* Download the [guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-mongo.zip](MongoDBOverIBMCloudKafkaStreams/guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-mongo.zip) plug-in.

> * Download the plugin filter configuration file [IBMCloudMongoDB.conf](IBMCloudMongoDB.conf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Download the plug-in filter configuration file [IBMCloudMongoDB.conf](IBMCloudMongoDB.conf).
```

### Procedure

> 1. On the collector, go to Setup > Tools and Views > Configure Universal Connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the collector, go to **Setup** > **Tools and Views** > **Configure Universal Connector**.
```

> 2. Enable the connector if it is already disabled, before proceeding uploading of the UC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Before you upload the universal connector, enable the connector if it is disabled.
```

3. Click Upload File and select the offline [guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-mongo.zip](MongoDBOverIBMCloudKafkaStreams/guardium_logstash-offline-plugins-mongo.zip) plug-in. After it is uploaded, click OK.
4. Click the Plus sign to open the Connector Configuration dialog box.

> 5. Type a name in the Connector name field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Type a name in the **Connector name** field.
```

6. Update the input section to add the details from [IBMCloudMongoDB.conf](IBMCloudMongoDB.conf) file's input part, omitting the keyword "input{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end.
7. Update the filter section to add the details from [IBMCloudMongoDB.conf](IBMCloudMongoDB.conf) file's filter part, omitting the keyword "filter{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end.

> 8. The "type" field should match in the input and filter configuration section. This field should be unique for every individual connector added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The **type** fields should match in the input and filter configuration sections. This field should be unique for every individual connector added.
```

> 9. Click Save. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Click **Save**. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.
```
